In order to derive Bayes' rule,
let's first take a look at
the conditional probabilities.
Now think about what happens if
instead of the entire Corpus,
you only consider tweets
that contain the word happy.
This is the same as saying given that
a tweet contains the word happy with that,
you would be considering only the tweets
inside the blue circle where many
of the positive tweets are now excluded.
In this case, the probability that
a tweet is positive given that
it contains the word happy simply
becomes the number of tweets
that are positive and
also contain the word happy.
And we divide that by the number
that contain the word happy.
As you can see by this calculation,
your tweet has a 75%
likelihood of being positive if
it's contains the word happy.
You could make the same case for
positive tweets.
The purple area denotes
the probability that a positive tweets
contains the word happy.
In this case, the probability
is 3 over 13, which is 0.231.
With all of this discussion of the
probability of missing certain conditions,
we are talking about
conditional probabilities.
Conditional probabilities could
be interpreted as the probability
of an outcome B knowing that
event A already happened.
Or given that I'm looking
at an element from set A,
the probability that it
also belongs to set B.
There's another way of looking at this
with the Venn diagram you saw before.
So using the previous example,
the probability of a tweets being
positive given that it has the word
happy is equal to the probability
of the intersection between
the tweets that are positive and
the tweets that have the word happy
divided by the probability of
a tweets given from the Corpus
having the word happy.
Let's take a closer look at
the equation from the previous slide.
You could write a similar equation by
simply swapping the position of the two
conditions.
Now, you have the conditional probability
of a tweets containing the word happy
given that it is a positive tweets.
Armed with both of these equations,
you're now ready to derive Bayes' rule.
To combine these equations, note that the
intersection represents the same quantity
no matter which way it's written, knowing
that you can remove it from the equation.
With a little algebraic manipulation,
you are able to arrive at this equation.
This is now an expression of Bayes' rule
in the context of the previous sentiment
analysis problem.
More generally, Bayes' rule
states that the probability of X
given Y is equal to the probability
of Y given X times the ratio of
the probability of X over
the probability of Y and that's it.
You just arrived at the basic
formulation of Bayes' rule, nicely done.
So to wrap up,
you just derived Bayes' rule from
expressions of conditional probability.
Throughout the rest of this course,
you'll be using Bayes' rule for
various applications in NLP.
The main takeaway for now is that
Bayes' rule is based on the mathematical
formulation of conditional probabilities.
And that with Bayes' rule, you can
calculate the probability of X given Y
if you already know
the probability of Y given X.
And the ratio of
the probabilities of X and Y.
So that's great work.
I'll see you later.